.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Id: srvsearch.1,v 1.6 2004/12/20 14:29:18 evertonm Exp $
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH RULI 1 "October 08, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
srvsearch, sync_srvsearch, smtpsearch, sync_smtpsearch, httpsearch, sync_httpsearch, ruli\-getaddrinfo
.br
\- Sample programs for RULI Library (RFC 2782)
.SH SYNOPSIS
echo _service._protocol.nongnu.org |
.B ruli-getaddrinfo
.br
echo _service._protocol.nongnu.org |
.B srvsearch [ options ]
.br
echo _service._protocol.nongnu.org |
.B sync_srvsearch [ options ]
.br
echo nongnu.org |
.B smtpsearch [ options ]
.br
echo nongnu.org |
.B sync_smtpsearch [ options ]
.br
echo nongnu.org |
.B httpsearch [ options ]
.br
echo nongnu.org |
.B sync_httpsearch [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly sample programs for the
.B ruli(3)
library.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBruli\fP is a library aimed at querying DNS SRV resource records.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
For http searches, one can force the port number by specifying it as the first option.
.TP
.BR search
Use the resolver search list defined in \'/etc/resolv.conf\'.
.TP
.BR need_ra
Require RA (Recursion Available) bit in the name server answer.
.TP
.BR noinet
Don\'t fetch IPv4 addresses.
.TP
.BR noinet6
Don\'t fetch IPv6 addresses.
.TP
.BR uri_port
Assume the specified default port was forced by the user-supplied URI.
.TP
.BR nowalk
Don\'t search addresses missing from the name server answer.
.TP
.BR nofall
Don\'t launch fallback queries for addresses, if the SRV query fails.
.TP
.BR nosort6
Don\'t sort the address list to give preference to IPv6 addresses.
.SH EXAMPLES
echo _telnet._tcp.nongnu.org |
ruli-getaddrinfo
.br
echo _smtp._tcp.nongnu.org |
srvsearch search
.br
echo _smtp._tcp.nongnu.org |
sync_srvsearch search noinet6
.br
echo nongnu.org |
smtpsearch noinet
.br
echo nongnu.org |
sync_smtpsearch nowalk nofall
.br
echo nongnu.org |
httpsearch noinet6
.br
echo nongnu.org |
sync_httpsearch 80
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
ruli(3)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Everton da Silva Marques <evertonsm@yahoo.com.br>.

